Gwenevere Abriel: Oh my god.
Daniel Guerrero: Good morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: Happy Friday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's take a little look here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So last time we spoke you
Gwenevere Abriel: Were in group, but you also mentioned that you had a little raise feeling a little bit more optimistic feeling a little bit more acknowledged by your employer is that continuing or has it kind of gone back to kind of feeling taken advantage of their
Daniel Guerrero: Or you don't know. Oh.
Daniel Guerrero: You know there for a while I was just kind of just feeling like I was just like,
Daniel Guerrero: A space filler, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: But like incurably
Daniel Guerrero: I don't know. I don't know. I can kind of caught when because I had, I had only I had totally only told one person that you know was looking for something different, you know, you know, looking for a little bit more money or
Daniel Guerrero: And I don't know, he you know that one person just told one person and they just kind of, you know, ignited. You know what I'm saying.
Daniel Guerrero: Okay, so
Daniel Guerrero: So now it's just like He seems like he like desk, in my opinion, mores and knows you know we're having all the sudden we're having the manager meeting, then you know you just kind of acknowledging, you know, the fact that, like, we're a little bit more. No other than the race, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: And so to me, and
Daniel Guerrero: It's hard. It's hard to
Daniel Guerrero: I just feel like there's just no for themselves, you know, like you better understand that I work in a family owned business line.
Daniel Guerrero: And this business is not like a franchise or or corporate office. They only
Daniel Guerrero: I just feel like that's as far as I'm ever going to go you know as as being a manager for them.
Daniel Guerrero: I don't know if I'm ever going like, I can't say. Well, we're retired here in 20 years, you know. Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I know I get the census isn't forever. But I mean, your ability to sort of enjoy it on a just on the short term, not feel sort of this pressure to have to relocate right away. I'm just kind of checking in on us doing
Daniel Guerrero: You know, you know, just really right now.
Daniel Guerrero: Best thing I got going, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: At the end at the end. At the end of the day, you know, my bills are paid you know I've been. I've been learning to manage
Daniel Guerrero: My money, a little bit better.
Daniel Guerrero: Actually have some money. So it's kind of helping
Okay.
Daniel Guerrero: We don't know enough about or anything like that, you know, I got like $12 in my bank account that's normal better than negative
Daniel Guerrero: $2 away.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm, are you, do you have anything specific that you want to focus on today. Otherwise, I've kind of got an idea of how I'd like today to go. What are your thoughts.
Daniel Guerrero: Well, just, you know, just, you know, just were you able to visit this morning. You know, I really
Daniel Guerrero: You know, today is
Daniel Guerrero: No, I really don't have a whole lot of stressors going on, you know, I just been trying to
Daniel Guerrero: Let go, the petty shit, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: And just kind of kind of focus on the bigger picture. You know me, I'm just trying to share go, you know, like I was saying, the group, you know, just like you know each time that my kids be kids. You know I never had that opportunity.
Daniel Guerrero: You know, just try not to be so focused on, you know, the petty shit, you know, I mean, don't give me some things to to annoy me somethings late night here to the show me but
Daniel Guerrero: That should go to, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: Live in the moment instead of
Daniel Guerrero: Always
Daniel Guerrero: Been. I don't want to be that
Daniel Guerrero: I'm already 40 I want to be, you know, and
Daniel Guerrero: Like I used to have a grandfather was will grumpy all the time is like super grumbling. He was like going to be around because he was on switching
Daniel Guerrero: Is my language. And so I just like, I don't want to be that person.
Daniel Guerrero: Reason why I was like
Daniel Guerrero: Whenever he was younger, I guess he always had always had something to say, you know, always complained about something, and as he got older, they're complaining just got worse and worse and worse. I don't want to be that person, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: I don't want to be this. You know chill, relax. Do you know that I am I really am you know
Daniel Guerrero: So that's kind of why I'm just like, trying to leave thing.
Daniel Guerrero: I mean,
Daniel Guerrero: Don't get it twisted. Like I said, but for the most part I'm I'm trying to let go of the ad stuff just trying to focus on the bigger picture.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's a healthy way to go about life.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it doesn't sound like you're presenting with anything specific today. So today is right about time where we review how you're progressing with your goals.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let me go over those with you one of your first ones that you have is I want more self control. I'd like to write a little statement.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of how you assess and let's try to keep it kind of brief and then we'll go on to the next one. So, today's the 15th of May. And when you think about I want more self control, what is your assessment of how you're doing.
Daniel Guerrero: I think I feel pretty good.
Daniel Guerrero: So far I'm doing okay.
Daniel Guerrero: I'm trying, I'm trying, more than I had before trying
Daniel Guerrero: To say
Alright.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we made a little statement about that. We've got a little time stamp on it here. And over the next month, we can continue to make improvements on that. So the next one is I want to get GED education.
Gwenevere Abriel: God bless you.
Daniel Guerrero: Sorry, I was trying to, you know, that was coming.
Gwenevere Abriel: Next one is I want to get a GED and education. So I made a little note on the sixth of May.
Gwenevere Abriel: To climb reported intent to set an alarm for five minutes today to go through website or apps or study for the GT reported some progress, but then was busy at work. So don't don't go too quickly want you to just pay attention to.
Gwenevere Abriel: What it was like to hear that this is your goal.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then to also pay attention to whether you are putting energy and investment in your education just track over the last month.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are your thoughts about yourself around having followed through with that or having not followed through with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't know me an explanation. This is your goal, but just go inside and you assess what's your opinion of yourself. What are your thoughts about yourself around where you're at with this goal.
Daniel Guerrero: To mention know it's kind of like
Daniel Guerrero: A little embarrassed of myself because you know I haven't been putting the effort to that, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: I don't know what it is, you know, I just
Daniel Guerrero: I know I'm not too busy.
Daniel Guerrero: Trying to further my education or myself. I'm just
Daniel Guerrero: And I'm never say I don't have the time because I always had the time to go to work at home. I was just tired and I'm like silver TV or shower and go to band about one o'clock in the morning, so I i do have the time, which is just not making time means
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, before you continue beating yourself up because that definitely is not the direction that that will help you
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a look at how once a week, sometimes twice a week.
Gwenevere Abriel: You create an hour for therapy. There's just enough reward, whether it's oh I know I need to get my medication or
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe there's this sense of maybe you feel heard and understood in here or maybe it's all just amount medication that part doesn't matter that that's for you to know. But I want you to see.
Gwenevere Abriel: That there's enough motivation, not only do you get in here on time you get in here like early and make sure You're checked in.
Gwenevere Abriel: You've already probably brush your teeth. Wash your face, you know you you got your drink right there, whether it's coffee or it's some water, whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are doing a lot. Make sure you succeed, you're actually doing something in the mornings that's working for you. And if we replace what we're doing in here with an hour of you doing something that feels really, like, oh, I'm kicking ass.
Gwenevere Abriel: You already have what it takes to do it. But there isn't quite the motivation. Am I right.
Daniel Guerrero: Yeah, you know, that makes a lot of sense. Man, but at the same time. It's kind of like embarrassing because I just feel like now that you say that, and it's just like
Daniel Guerrero: What am I really here before, you know, where am I really here. Just, just to be like the medication or am I am I really am here for progress, you know, kind of makes me want to sit back and think about
Daniel Guerrero: Think about that. You know, like
Daniel Guerrero: I never thought about it like that, you know, I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm trying to reinforce that you already have what it takes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not for you to question. Yeah, I want to reinforce that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, sometimes someone on the outside, pointing out something that's right in front of us. It's like we're so close to it, we can't even see what it is. And so we can step back and say, wait a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I'm motivated to prevent withdrawal. If I'm motivated to get this
Gwenevere Abriel: This buprenorphine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Wonder why I'm not motivated right to get an education I value it because I know you do. Right. It's all around you, with your children.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh. Wonder what what we could put in place where we could get some short term reward and that's why
Gwenevere Abriel: I had one and just five minute little Sprint's not not even a half hour, not an hour. I was just going to see if we could put something in place where you can feel some success, meaning this feels good. I wanted to feel good feeling around GED or education for even five minutes.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we couldn't quite get there. Now let me just ask you, did it occur to you to do it even liked it across your mind at all.
Daniel Guerrero: Okay, I'm sorry, my phone's my phone started ringing. I didn't, I didn't
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what I said, but I just wanted to know if if you thought about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: At any point during this last week about, you know what, I'm just going to log on line. I'm going to go online, or I'm going to make some calls
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you didn't even occur to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
No.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no.
Daniel Guerrero: I'm sorry, because my dad was yesterday was helping my daughter on her on her. They have Chromebooks. Right. And so that's how they're going to school.
Daniel Guerrero: I hate God, you know, I need your help. I don't know how to do this well either. Did the computer do it either.
Daniel Guerrero: Kind of felt embarrassed. Okay, go to her. I don't know how to do. She's coming to you for the answer.
Daniel Guerrero: And then I'm having to turn on until her well I don't know either.
Daniel Guerrero: Know this, to me, I was kind of embarrassing.
Daniel Guerrero: I didn't show that you know what I started doing I just started poking through the screen are looking for stuff. And I was like, Oh, you did it. It's right there. Dad, you guys like yeah
Daniel Guerrero: I see you know is good.
Daniel Guerrero: But the real inside was like, hey, I can even help her do this because
Daniel Guerrero: I don't know. I don't know if it's
Daniel Guerrero: I just had a learning disability. You know, I don't know what you told us that for an excuse because, you know, we all have the same
Daniel Guerrero: Opportunities, you know, I use that a lot. You know, I always use that that we all have the same opportunities right
Daniel Guerrero: We all have the same opportunity to have a job or have an education, you know that now that I'm older I reflect on it a lot because, you know, I see, I see the mess around me sometimes. But, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: The my wife, you know, she has a brothers that are far from perfect. I'm not saying I'm perfect. But they're far from perfect. And so whenever
Daniel Guerrero: I see. I see what how their influence today. Mike and I look back at our life and I look back on it for them either and by no means am I trying to compare my life to their life because, you know, we all have different lines.
Daniel Guerrero: Or I am trying to compare is, is the fact that we all have the same opportunity as far as like employment, for example.
Daniel Guerrero: And I'm like, whoa, whoa. We're all on the streets. If we don't pay our rent. We're on the streets, you know, if you don't pay your rent your on the streets, that's
Gwenevere Abriel: My rant.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Daniel Guerrero: And so, you know, and, and then I and then I turn around and I look at you know
Daniel Guerrero: You know, other situations and I, you know, like for example like
Daniel Guerrero: Being a being a police officer or something like that, you know, I had that opportunity. But I flushed down the toilet, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: So for me is
Daniel Guerrero: You know, taking advantage of an opportunity and utilizing the time it's important to me, but I just still, I don't understand why I'm not showing the effort or why am I not even trying.
Daniel Guerrero: It, it's kind of, it's kind of bothered me. You know, now that we talked about it more in my
Gwenevere Abriel: And and I
Gwenevere Abriel: Know there's some
Gwenevere Abriel: There's some truth to what you're saying, but there's also
Gwenevere Abriel: Some facts that that are a little skewed and that has to do with with the type of
Gwenevere Abriel: developmental trauma that you've had in your life.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not really true that you've had the exact same opportunities you haven't quite had the same opportunities that someone that didn't have that kind of trauma.
Gwenevere Abriel: So give yourself a break. Let's not go back in time and give yourself a hard time about what if, what if, what if I had done it differently, but rather just sort of gently respect the fact that what what education has in front of you is
Gwenevere Abriel: It requires so much delayed gratification.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's uncomfortable opening the book it's uncomfortable getting stuck on a problem, it's uncomfortable. Who the heck am I supposed to ask for help is uncomfortable sitting on a computer on what the F. I'm doing
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I got my children looking at me and then I got all the shame response, why on I already done with this this pissing me off and now I have to think about. I ain't going to even feel how good this is for how many months.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so of course you're not going to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like, because if the reward is so far away.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: That's human. That's you, that's me that's everybody. It's the reason why when you were raising your kids or
Gwenevere Abriel: What have you, you had to push because they don't want to do it either. We don't want to get plenty of things that I'm putting off because I'm not going to be rewarded right away. That is just how the brain works. So just be nicer to yourself on this one. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: We get a nice
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we get reward money. Money represents I get to have my furniture for my kids I get to pay. I have internet I have cable. I have these things. That's enough. And it gives a little spray of dopamine in your brain that says keep doing that.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's it. It's, it's not this big philosophical things. So that's why when I was saying, just to do five minutes. I wasn't kidding.
Gwenevere Abriel: I was literally trying to put in place so that you would experience and positive reward for just doing five minutes of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I was hoping that when you and I had done it together when we pulled up the internet and I pulled up one of those little problems and we did it together. I was hoping that you would come away with that thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: Just as smart as anybody else.
Gwenevere Abriel: But is that how how you left or did you do something else. What else with that experience.
Daniel Guerrero: No, um,
Daniel Guerrero: You know I
Daniel Guerrero: You know, I think I'm I am a pretty bright guy you know i just i just i don't understand what it is. It's about understanding, you know, the texts, you know, sometimes, sometimes I just don't understand the text and then I have
Daniel Guerrero: This really, you know, pronouncing words and understanding words you know there's something I don't know and you know I Google it. Google tells me how it tells me what it means. And I'm like, oh, not like use it in a sentence. Google it, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know,
Daniel Guerrero: I don't know, I just
Daniel Guerrero: I don't know, I just thought, sometimes it's not normal normally
Gwenevere Abriel: It is it's normal and and and i don't know
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't meet you when you were
Gwenevere Abriel: 10 and I couldn't. You know, I didn't assess whether there was, you know, when you were six and seven and see if you had any any
Gwenevere Abriel: Literal cognitive learning disability. I have no idea, but I know you now, and I know I did something spontaneously and you picked up on on. I remember the their th er E versus TH I er you picked up on it before I did.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so what
Gwenevere Abriel: You were had an isolated when you're incarcerated. This little chunk of vocabulary. It is all you need. This little bit right here. That's all you need.
Gwenevere Abriel: You come out into the world and you want to, you know, specifically pass the specific exam you study, you can study specifically to pass that test. And now, you'd be doing is be specifically trying to pass that GED thing. That's it. But along the way. If you're saying
Gwenevere Abriel: You're dumb. You're stupid. You can't do it there. I just don't think it's likely you're going to even get started.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you meet yourself there was such a negative opinion of you instead of just going using radical acceptance right with every single problem. If it's number two and it gets difficult, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well this one's hard
Gwenevere Abriel: I gotta walk away from it for a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so I'm going to look up a couple of those words.
And I look them up.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's no different than anybody else. Now, we were fortunate enough maybe to not have such a high a score.
Gwenevere Abriel: You had a lot of negative things that happened coming up. So you're a story first came in here. They probably asked you through a few questions and your score was probably up there because you've witnessed domestic violence, you've experienced it, etc, etc. So I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: You guys don't quite seem to get that it does impact learning it does impact self confidence. It impacts it, it sets you on a different direction, even look even a little
Gwenevere Abriel: slight angle sets you this way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even just a
Gwenevere Abriel: slight turn
Gwenevere Abriel: What if I had done just a little bit more pat on the back. But if I had gotten 30% because all you really need is 30% of good enough parenting and you're going to be in. All right, you're going to be all right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not 100% not at 30 we can pretty much pull that off. But I wonder if you even got that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I seriously don't think you did.
Daniel Guerrero: Well, you know, no, no. And I'm not trying to kick my mom, you know, or
Daniel Guerrero: When I was younger, he always RAN OUT ON THIS, YOU KNOW, SHE ALWAYS THAT THIS behind him left me with my step dad, you know, to raise us, you know, and he kind of just, you know, used to, I don't know what to use those for but
Daniel Guerrero: Anyways, it just wasn't good, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: And then it didn't help.
Daniel Guerrero: You know that
Daniel Guerrero: No instead of helping me was forcing me, you know, hey, or for an example, for example, like I was scared. I remember as a kid. I was scared to tell him that I even had spelling words because I could not pass the
Gwenevere Abriel: Test even
Daniel Guerrero: My own I couldn't pass them.
Daniel Guerrero: Okay, and so he had a student teacher calm. I mean, the conference and found out that I haven't been passing my spelling test well that turned into a bigger issue right
Yeah.
Daniel Guerrero: And
Daniel Guerrero: I remember that.
Daniel Guerrero: I would have to take my spelling this home on Monday, and I had to learn how to spell all 20 words before I went to bed.
Daniel Guerrero: So that
Daniel Guerrero: You know, so it was
It was pretty difficult.
Daniel Guerrero: It was really tough, you know, living in an environment
Daniel Guerrero: Because if it wasn't right, or
Daniel Guerrero: It would just
Daniel Guerrero: Never
Gwenevere Abriel: So Daniel just take that one story, how on earth do you think that you're going to be able to go look at learning with excitement when that's your history of learning. It's awful.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, it
Gwenevere Abriel: It's just going to take a different approach. It's going to have to be this rediscovery
Gwenevere Abriel: That your brain actually does like novelty. It likes it, and like something, it's like, Oh, what's that I've never seen that before. It does. We just got to get it back.
Gwenevere Abriel: To the way it was before that damage was done with the stepfather. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the brain does it likes to focus. Oh, I really want to solve this problem. And actually, again with the domain job. It means really important pieces as a human, it will give you just a little spray also once you solve the problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: There is a natural a brain chemical happening that that reinforces that we solve a problem or when we reach the end of a story or when you have an aha moment. Doesn't it feel good, like I got it, I got the answer. It feels good.
Gwenevere Abriel: What happened to you was so unfortunate that this negative conditioning happened that learning is not only not fun, but it's like awful.
Daniel Guerrero: It is to have been like that.
Go ahead.
Daniel Guerrero: Yeah, sometimes it's torture, you know, trying to
Daniel Guerrero: kind of learn or read, you know, because it wasn't, it wasn't easy. You know, for me or my brother, you know, I
Daniel Guerrero: I remember that, you know, my brother. God has asked was so bad.
Daniel Guerrero: On a Monday when he got his 10 spelling words.
Daniel Guerrero: Because as well so bad he couldn't sit down for like two days, and he had to force myself to sit down at school.
Daniel Guerrero: You know, he come home and he's like, man, I'm glad at home from school. I couldn't even sit down. I had to force myself.
To be
Daniel Guerrero: Terrible man like my step dad was, you know, is
Daniel Guerrero: Anyways, that's just a whole different other but that's that's why I feel like I'm just like today is just like I wasn't help you know to get an education. It was like bam, bam, bam, get it right, bam, bam, bam, bam, you know, fucking idiot. You know, it is like
Daniel Guerrero: My down. You know what kind of fun. Is that so education to learn it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you know what, I'm so
Gwenevere Abriel: You did do something I listened to your story when you were with your daughter when you are. I'm doing the Chrome, whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice what you did. You didn't know how to do it, but she just, I call it. People will say, oh, you really know a lot about technology. And I'm like, No, I don't. I'm just computer courageous and you are to you just started
Gwenevere Abriel: Started
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's all you need.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a willingness to be uncertain. That's all.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. And if it turns out you get there if you get there and let's say
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's say you go to a GED class. I'm just making up a story there's 100 different ways to do it. You're in G to class and the teacher comes along and says,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, I keep seeing you're doing this one particular thing where you're switching letters around maybe you have dyslexia, or maybe it's none of that. And maybe it's just this aversion to learning. Who knows.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I think all you need to move forward is what you did with your daughter, which is the courage.
Gwenevere Abriel: And if the story that you take, say to yourself, is
Gwenevere Abriel: Step Dad expletive like MF like one more, you know, really get into it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not gonna let you control my adult life. You control my childhood. I'm not gonna let you do it. Today, I'm going to go do something
Gwenevere Abriel: That I enjoy. That's this an investment in in me that I would do for my own children. I'm going to do it for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe using anger as a as a motivator. I don't know if you can kind of buy into that, but sort of like, you know what, I'm not going to let you run my life anymore. That's history. And in fact, I'll show you. You know what I'm trying to say like all show you
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not what
Gwenevere Abriel: I had
Daniel Guerrero: A good day because you know there's something I would like you know it's you know I think about all the time, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: Because my mom. My mom only has two kids and my brother got to graduate. You know, he graduated high school and you know we had this big old thing for him.
Daniel Guerrero: You know, he got to walk across the stage and diploma. You know, so it was a big it was a big moment, you know, for my mom because you know she was very proud, you know, your brother.
Daniel Guerrero: And
Daniel Guerrero: He was able to do that, we
Daniel Guerrero: You know,
Daniel Guerrero: And she told me if anybody was going to graduate. I thought you were going to graduate, rather than one going to be dropping out
Daniel Guerrero: Oh, yeah.
Daniel Guerrero: So I always think about how great it would be
Daniel Guerrero: You know, visit my mom a diploma, like you're, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: You know what it
Daniel Guerrero: Means
Daniel Guerrero: To me for us but you know with you.
Daniel Guerrero: Because you know there
Daniel Guerrero: It's crazy that
Daniel Guerrero: You know, I talked to recruiters.
Daniel Guerrero: From swift, you know, a while back.
Daniel Guerrero: And he hit me up the other day, and he's like,
Daniel Guerrero: He's like, hey man, you know, maybe we can work something now that we can get you get you on. Uh huh. I don't know. I don't know if you know what Swift is what
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it it's
Daniel Guerrero: It's a
Like a food distribution company.
Daniel Guerrero: But when I applied for applying for a truck drove it i don't i don't have a license or CPM
Daniel Guerrero: But they'll pay me for my training, you know, pay me as I go. And then you got to assign a one year contract with them.
Daniel Guerrero: And you got to drive for them for one year, you know, as you get your license, whatever.
Daniel Guerrero: You know they pretty much take you under their wing and you've got a pretty much, you know, give you one year devotion to them, you know, for, you know, giving you an open, you know, license and then you've got a workflow here.
Daniel Guerrero: So I had him.
Daniel Guerrero: I hit them up and
Daniel Guerrero: I guess now that they're desperate situation they hit me back over, like what so you know this, try to figure this out so you can, we can get one.
Daniel Guerrero: But then there's that. Do you have the education. Do you have a GED or high school diploma and it's like, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: So Daniel What if it's not as bad as you think.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: 45 some day anyway.
Gwenevere Abriel: You aren't you
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not going to die right
Gwenevere Abriel: So what the heck
Daniel Guerrero: Oh, you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Going to at this point.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is five minutes. One day this week. What if we just bring it down to one day.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if you and I just do five minutes.
Gwenevere Abriel: And they can have another pair of eyes, you get to feel hopefully good
Gwenevere Abriel: Where would you start, we looked online at a school, but you didn't follow up right
Daniel Guerrero: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you didn't hang up with me, even though I'm not going to tell you what to do. I'm not a probation officer. I don't tell people what to do. The closest I'll ever get is
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll have the closest little other sound is like, Well, you're invited or I encourage you to set an alarm, that's a strong as it's ever going to get in here. I can't live your life. But I want to, I want to take you in the morning and say, Okay, let's get up early. Let's
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go practice, let's bust open. Our Ji Ji book. Let's review. Let's read together, um, you know, I would do that. I can't
Daniel Guerrero: Write I good
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to have to do these first scary steps in the beginning, but I have faith that it will get easier because you're going to end up saying it's not as hard as I thought.
Daniel Guerrero: Yeah, it's just
Daniel Guerrero: I'm not trying to make no excuses, you know, because there's something there. I really want
Daniel Guerrero: I just, I just don't know.
Daniel Guerrero: I just need to put more effort into it and I agree with that 100%
Gwenevere Abriel: About three minutes a day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you see what we're doing.
Daniel Guerrero: Yeah, we can go. We can do that, I'm gonna try that, you know, was definitely see what I can do.
Daniel Guerrero: Just quit wasting my time, you know, starting guidelines on me because i i don't know why i appreciate that so much, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: So always know take advantage of the time that you have or, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: Oh, always, always say that stuff will never like
Daniel Guerrero: I don't know why I just, I feel like did I am applying it to myself by, you know, our next word I do you know this work I do.
Daniel Guerrero: You clean it to myself, but maybe I'm really not. Maybe I'm just missing it you know
Daniel Guerrero: missing the mark I know so
Daniel Guerrero: Try to focus on
Gwenevere Abriel: Daniel, what you're doing, gives you short term gratification.
Gwenevere Abriel: It just does. You're going to end up doing those things first. It's just the way we all work, you're going to get money that makes sense to our brain, but do you when I say delayed gratification, you kind of sort of know what I'm talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your rap delayed me. I'm gonna have to wait months to get a pat on the head pat on the back. Those are hard for all of us.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so if we do little bits so that we can get your brain online so that it can say it's not as bad as I thought. And hey, this does feel good. I'm proud of myself. It will reinforce it. You'll do it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Daniel Guerrero: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's, let's do, let's do one together. Let's do one right now, what would feel good right now because I have the internet right here. I can share the screen.
Gwenevere Abriel: If we could spend three minutes doing something, what would it be that would just be like, I'm scared to do it, but I know it's something that I'll be proud of. Three minutes I'll set my timer.
Daniel Guerrero: You know what, I'm you know like
Daniel Guerrero: Algebra or something that I have a really hard time with
Daniel Guerrero: Yeah. And the reason why I have so much
Daniel Guerrero: I just don't get all the numbers that
Daniel Guerrero: Exists in the ends and
Daniel Guerrero: I don't get it.
Okay.
Daniel Guerrero: So struggling
Gwenevere Abriel: Algebra.
Gwenevere Abriel: What about all the stuff that comes before it so maybe it's about reviewing some things that are before algebra pre algebra.
Gwenevere Abriel: And getting comfortable with it. It has been years for you so
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's where you review and. Nobody's putting this pressure on you, but you
Gwenevere Abriel: So you just say wrong. I'll just, I'll just see where I'm at. And so let's just take that this concept of algebra is daunting for you. Okay, so let me just see. As soon as I get this up, then I've got my my timer set for three minutes you can feel what three minutes. Feels like okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Pre. I'm going to go pre algebra though pre algebra.
Gwenevere Abriel: Bro.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay so GED practice algebra problems GED pre algebra worksheets.
Gwenevere Abriel: Worksheets
Once
Gwenevere Abriel: Free GED math practice.
Gwenevere Abriel: This guy, Scott. If you saw a good stock on, let me just set it up so you can feel with us. So I'm just starting. It's going to share my screen to see what this guy has to say.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just, this is random. I don't know, you could stop I'll change it a few seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: For each of these examples I'm going to demonstrate how to figure out what percentage of the whole a given number is, well, here's the number 36 as our whole and for each of these said, you know what a whole means
Daniel Guerrero: Right, a whole number, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Perfect. Now I happen to be terrible a percentage. So I'm kind of excited. He's going to do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Verse, figure out what percentage of 36 there. Okay, so let's look at these examples, we have four. So to find the percentage of 36 and four is will divide for by 36
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we can treat this as a fraction and reduce it by dividing top and bottom by four. So, this becomes a one. That part makes sense. You're going to how many times is foregoing 36
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's great. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: This becomes a nine whatever nine she breaks it down. Whenever nine
Gwenevere Abriel: The percentage equivalent of one over nine is 11.1% well how to get that. So for is 11.1% 36
Gwenevere Abriel: Second example we have terrible teacher because I don't even know how I got that. So he sucks. We're going to go to a different one. I want to know how I got that.
Daniel Guerrero: He was not good. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: He was terrible. So let me just see what
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, Turkey.
Daniel Guerrero: Was
Gwenevere Abriel: Living in 911 yeah it was that percentage is 11.1 but he should have shown how to do it. Um so pre L ship.
Gwenevere Abriel: For algebra.
Gwenevere Abriel: Lesson. I like that.
Daniel Guerrero: Let's see if this one's any good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Pre algebra review this guys. See you. We're going to focus on pre algebra. We're going to cover some common topics that you might see this course.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the first thing that you need to be able to do is add and subtract integers and example. Let's say you want to add funds blustery. Yeah. How many of you know that 500 students a but if you ever have difficulty with this type of mouth using number
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's start with size. You can place it anywhere. Whenever you're adding a number to another number, you need to move to the right of the number line. Anytime you're adding and if you need to subtract
Gwenevere Abriel: Travel towards the left.
Gwenevere Abriel: So in this case we want to add three to five. So we need to travel three units to the right 123 is a 678 so therefore five cluster is a
Gwenevere Abriel: Now let's try some more examples. What is the negative fourth plus size.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that was three minutes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whoa, okay. And are you interested. Don't you kind of want to know what negative four plus five is I kind of knew
Daniel Guerrero: I kind of do tune
Gwenevere Abriel: It to, let's see. Let's use the Netherlands hippie answer. So before we start with negative four.
Gwenevere Abriel: Five to it. So we're gonna try with five minutes. Turn right 12345
Gwenevere Abriel: This is negative three, negative two minus one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ready for
This
Gwenevere Abriel: One. So it's 12345. That makes sense. You add to the right. Yes, we moved you see my mouse, you see my little arrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Okay, so we moved or adding to the right because you just told us we move to the right, when we're adding
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's 12345 and there it is a positive one. And that's our answer. Now, we knew that already. Like, if we have five things that we take away for we know it's one. But it's this negative number. That kind of is freaky geeky
Gwenevere Abriel: And this is a good way to to kind of visualize it, but so now you're telling me that you can't do three minutes a day. And that was kind of fun.
Gwenevere Abriel: I've got
Daniel Guerrero: It honestly was because I started that you know i i do kind of like
Daniel Guerrero: This but I'm just, I just have a hard time doing it because
Daniel Guerrero: I don't know if I would, I think I might have told you this last time I had this really tough.
Daniel Guerrero: math teacher right and
Daniel Guerrero: Like she didn't make that fun for me at all because like SHOULD I, DO YOU GET IT, YOU GET IT. YOU UNDERSTAND. YOU UNDERSTAND. Yes. Yes. No. Who doesn't know so I can show you. You know how stupid you are
Embarrassing
Daniel Guerrero: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I bet, I bet you're talking about because I don't remember all those words, either. It's been too long, but I bet you were talking about order of operations.
Gwenevere Abriel: I bet it's this stuff, this lady here I'm just through this up. I bet you're struggling with these things like which order to do things order, you're always going to solve your problem from left to right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll show some examples to make sure that's understood
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to follow the acronym PIM DOS to remember what order, you're going to go in the P stands for current defeat. The E stands for exponent. The M is multiplication D division. A addition and subtraction.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that would be a cool thing to memorize right how the order of rockers. What do I do first, like you know how you were saying all the parentheses and the minuses and the divisions and all that. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Around what just just from two things we're looking at, we can see that if we memorized.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, we know we're going to parentheses and then whatever that he was an M. And then the division and then the addition and subtraction. So it's written out. We just have to memorize what those letters are
Gwenevere Abriel: And then guess what, now we know what to start with when we're looking at one of those algebraic equations and all we did was turn on YouTube.
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't have to have a mean old teacher, we have internet is our friend.
Daniel Guerrero: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Feeling that
Gwenevere Abriel: And this was no research. This is me just randomly right in front of you, pulling it up and I don't remember pen DOS is as I'm looking at. I'm like, Oh, I bet I have that memorized. I was in school.
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember now, I'd have to review it. I would have to review all of this, it doesn't mean you're deficient. It means if we aren't thinking about something.
Gwenevere Abriel: Our brain pronouns, it gets rid of it. Your brain my brain. Everybody spraying, especially if there was marijuana use it PRUNES IT and it makes it really difficult to learn
Daniel Guerrero: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's nothing deficient with you. This is you just getting a look at this and say, Yeah, I'm just going to give it a try.
Gwenevere Abriel: The N MD or multiplication and division are solved at the same time. The same is true for the NFP addition and subtraction. They're also saw that the same time.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know that's kind of a lot to remember. But we're going to jump into some examples. So all of this makes a little portion. Let's get into example number one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Example number one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Before beginning because I know I'm using our order of operations. I always tell my students to start by writing pin DOS at the top of your paper. So I'm going to write it right up here.
Gwenevere Abriel: P
Gwenevere Abriel: E
Gwenevere Abriel: M.
Gwenevere Abriel: D. So what's the paste in parentheses. Right. I think my m amp D. I always say it's a good idea to circle the. Am I, am I, is it is a good idea to circle, though. Okay. Because you do them together.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want to circle. These two because just like in the last slide I explaining they work together.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now if you remember the first bullet point I made unless flag was you solve your problem from left to right. That's right. So what I do is look at each letter of my acronym and take my art from left to right.
Gwenevere Abriel: And determine if I have anything in the problem that is that letter P or so from left to right. I'm going to check to see if I have any parentheses. No, no, I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I spun it. Nope. Nope. No. Looking from left to right. Do I have any exponent. No, no, I don't.
Gwenevere Abriel: Multiplication and division. This time, when I look, it doesn't matter if I see multiplication or division and it doesn't matter which comes first, I'm going to take note of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: As I moved from left to right, so moving from left to right. Yes, I have multiplication. Okay. Because I have multiple five times to. There's your multiplication. Right.
Daniel Guerrero: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep location. That means I need to solve this part right now because that's the stuff that we're on. So to solve this, I say rewrite the entire problem, except for the portion that you are solving you're going to rewrite it. And the solved answer. The answer, so it's
Gwenevere Abriel: Like 3232 minus what
Daniel Guerrero: Huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Yeah, see, that was easy. You know what's up. It's this memorizing this nonsense like this is it. There's just rules, that's a neat thing about math we just got to remember what they are.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Daniel Guerrero: Right, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so now you know again I threw me into this
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, what do you think it is this, it seemed as overwhelming, or is it something you could do a smidge of
Daniel Guerrero: Yeah.
Daniel Guerrero: You know, it's like
Daniel Guerrero: It was a perfect example. You know, you know, will will receive on my end because night. It doesn't take long to do that.
Daniel Guerrero: You know it is. It's not hard to just jot it down again, you know, as I'm thinking about this.
Daniel Guerrero: So, you know, I'm going to be quite honest, which is to me. I just feel. I feel like a little embarrassed because it's not hard. It's just doing it. You know, it's just going out literally just
Daniel Guerrero: Taking time and
Daniel Guerrero: And doing it, you know, because
Daniel Guerrero: You know, later on, even my kids are getting older, you know, they're not getting younger, I wish that we get younger, but are not grow at all. So,
Gwenevere Abriel: I know a little tail.
Daniel Guerrero: So, you know, it's going to come. It's not accommodate and I'll be like, you know, this big old math. Math problem, a dad, I need some help with this and
Daniel Guerrero: I want to look at it. I don't know what the heck. That means, you know, and it
Daniel Guerrero: You know, I just, I just want to be able to do that, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: I think if I had more time to do it just to be honest, I'm just going to be honest with with the whole thing here, it says
Daniel Guerrero: I'm just not finding the time to do it and I need to. So
Gwenevere Abriel: If your motivation is not there.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you are really not motivated by having the CBL license.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which is preceded by a GED or diploma.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's unlikely, it's unlikely that you will set an alarm for five minutes.
Gwenevere Abriel: All you have to do is set an alarm for five minutes earlier in the morning. This is an intervention in
Gwenevere Abriel: Its setting it you do it. You haven't experienced like this today, which is this kind of, quote, I felt kind of smart today and I solved the problem. I watched a YouTube video on right here it says 15 most important GED questions.
Gwenevere Abriel: This little blonde twit with their little glasses. And so we've opened it up and we look at
Gwenevere Abriel: Rice for five minutes and then you might say to yourself, I did it once have I set my alarm for tomorrow morning for five minutes or six
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you do that and you might laugh with your wife, and you might laugh with your kids and like I see y'all doing all this math and I forgot. Most of it. One half paying attention to. Now I'm just gonna
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna do a refresh. And I'm going to, I'm going to work towards my GED. Or maybe you don't tell them yet, that's up to you. It does help to
Gwenevere Abriel: Make a commitment to someone and say, I'm going to do something because then you have pressure to do it, but that's your choice. But these five minutes what you just did in here today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was it unpleasant, or did you get to feel a little smart.
Daniel Guerrero: Well, you know, I mean, I enjoyed it, you know.
Daniel Guerrero: I put my phone on the charges.
Daniel Guerrero: So, for
Daniel Guerrero: This going to be honest, like
Daniel Guerrero: wasn't as hard as or as good as I thought it was going to be, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do this. Daniel. Do you want to see if
Gwenevere Abriel: You can do it once or twice a week or you get up early and you all you do is go on your phone or on somebody's computer do you have anybody have in the house, like a laptop or anything that they can do some some computer work.
Daniel Guerrero: And my kids actually have some Chromebooks. They're basically the same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: There you go.
Daniel Guerrero: One way of, you can do whatever you want on it. So it's basically the same thing.
Daniel Guerrero: So Daniel so
Gwenevere Abriel: If I said
Gwenevere Abriel: Turn right now to your phone and set an alarm that works for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you excited, or are you irritated with me when I
Daniel Guerrero: Know it to me. It's excitement, um,
Daniel Guerrero: You know, because I could benefit from him. This is something that I want, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: I took this class one time and it was called breaking barriers and
Daniel Guerrero: It was about. It was about, um,
Daniel Guerrero: Long term.
Daniel Guerrero: Benefits and long term.
Daniel Guerrero: Non beneficial things, you know, so
Daniel Guerrero: I mean, this is not to be beneficial. It'd be very easy for me to, you know, get involved in something like this, you know, and, you know,
Daniel Guerrero: So Daniel cook me
Gwenevere Abriel: Just put me on hold and set an alarm for tomorrow. Go for it. Take your phone and setting the alarm. The video will pause. I don't care. Just, just go for it. This is an in vivo activity where you just do it right away before your mind gets in convinces you to not do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. So, what time do you typically wake up on on a on a Saturday.
Daniel Guerrero: Saturday i'm i'm not pretty early, because I like to have a day before I go to work, you know I'm always up by eight o'clock.
Gwenevere Abriel: Most days I'm open 845 set it for 750 is it that big of a difference.
Daniel Guerrero: Not really.
Gwenevere Abriel: And take your phone. Go for it.
Gwenevere Abriel: There.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to label it something that inspires you, some little label about alarm. If it lets you
Daniel Guerrero: Know it's me label.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what would feel good, like you got this manner, go for it or something that gives you a little giggle or inspiration.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like you're worth it or you're smart or something. It feels good.
Gwenevere Abriel: gotchas. You got this, man. I like it. You got this.
Daniel Guerrero: You got this. That's what I put there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, perfect.
Daniel Guerrero: Okay, I'm gonna put there you
Gwenevere Abriel: If it turns out you don't keep that commitment to yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to ask
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Daniel Guerrero: I'm going to ask you if you kept
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll ask you the next time I see you and you'll be honest, because I know you're honest.
Gwenevere Abriel: That little bit of pressure that knowing that I'm going to ask you if you kept that commitment to yourself might be, just enough to compel you to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe or if, in addition you have even if
Daniel Guerrero: You go already
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And guess what, then, if you do it, then you go into growth and I do these little activities and I'll say things like, what, what do you proud of, you know, or I'll say, wherever you brave.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or I'll say it'd be like, I got one. And you can raise your hand and be like, look what I did and you can brag.
Gwenevere Abriel: You did something hard don't minimize it. Daniel, what you're about to do is go in to a dark unlit jungle, it is terrifying don't minimize how scary. This is. But the reality is when you get there, you'll realize, oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: The fundings just about the same as it was right outside the jungle. And it turns out, I can see a little bit in front of me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know I've had, I recognize this plant. I know this tree I recognize that sound. I think you're going to be okay. We just got to get that first couple steps in and then you'll remember, everything's gonna be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Alright, um, I
Gwenevere Abriel: Better go I thought someone not gonna miss cyber door here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me see what I've got for next week. This was an impromptu but I thought we had something planned out for the following week, didn't we
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, second
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so, um, I had you in here twice. Tell me if this is okay. I have 9am Wednesday, May 20 I had you both. And then I I felt I made a mistake and I gave away Friday to someone else. Are you okay with Wednesday at nine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Made one
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: May 20 okay so put that in your in your in your phone and
Gwenevere Abriel: If I remember over the weekend to to text you a little, like, How'd that go on Saturday.
Daniel Guerrero: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just pay. Yeah. Just pay attention to whether you end up getting irritated with it because I'm going to want to know, or if you felt like, Oh, someone cares
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to just pay attention to yourself and see whether you welcome it as support or whether you're like what a pain in the butt. This lady is just notice in yourself whether you're drawing
Gwenevere Abriel: What I want to know, because otherwise right I'll back off. If it's a pain in the butt. But if it's. Ooh.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's helping me she's kind of niche niche newedge then that's a positive thing. So just pay attention to yourself and speak and see if you like it, or if you don't like it, because I want to hear it either way.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, I better go. Have a good weekend. Right.
Daniel Guerrero: Right. Thank you.
Bye.
Daniel Guerrero: Bye.